Dev/alembic migration (#563)
TOSIT-IO/tdp-lib: alembic_migration/README.md

> ## Table Migration

Reviewer: Would be nice to write a small section describing the purpose of online/offline modes in Alembic and how we use them. Also, provide link to the related Alembic documentation for reference.

> ## Table Migration
> 
> The table models defined in `tdp/core/models` might incure changes over time. Alembic is used to migrate these changes to your database.
> 
> It has been setup to work with 3 DBMSs:`MySQL & MariaDB`,`PostreSQL` and `SqLite`.
> 
> Add the following variables in an `.env` file to use development databases:
> 
> ```sh
> export TDP_ALEMBIC_SQLITE_DSN=sqlite:///sqlite.db
> export TDP_ALEMBIC_POSGRESQL_DSN=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/tdp
> export TDP_ALEMBIC_MYSQL_DSN=mysql+pymysql://mysql:mysql@localhost:3306/tdp
> ```
> 
> `TDP_DATABASE_DSN` is read if variables above are not defined.
> 
> Use Alembic:
> 
> - Set path to `alembic.ini` file if alembic commands are executed ouside the `tdp-lib` folder:
> 
>     ```sh
>     export ALEMBIC_CONFIG=<path_to>/tdp-lib/alembic.ini
>     ```
> 
> - Check if the database is up to date with SQLAlchemy models in the code:
> 
>     ```sh
>     alembic --name <BBMS> check
>     ```
> 
> - Let Alembic generate a migration file in `alambic/versions`:
> 
>     ```sh
>     alembic --name <BBMS> revision --autogenerate -m "commit message"
>     ```
> 
> - Verify the file generated in the `versions` folder, modify it if necessary and test the upgrade with the command:
> 
>    ```sh
>    alembic --name <BBMS> upgrade head

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Database Migration (Dev mode)

The table models defined in `tdp/core/models` might incur changes over time. Alembic is used to migrate these changes to your database. This section explains how to use Alembic for database migration in development mode (between 2 releases).

TDP supports 3 DBMSs:

- MySQL & MariaDB
- PostreSQL
- SQLite

A compose file is provided to run the databases in Docker containers. To start the databases, run:

```sh
docker-compose -f dev/docker-compose.yaml up -d
```

To use the databases, set the following environment variables. For example, in the `.env` file:

```sh
export TDP_ALEMBIC_SQLITE_DSN=sqlite:///sqlite.db
export TDP_ALEMBIC_POSGRESQL_DSN=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/tdp
export TDP_ALEMBIC_MYSQL_DSN=mysql+pymysql://mysql:mysql@localhost:3306/tdp
```

If none of the above variables are set, `TDP_DATABASE_DSN` is used as the only DSN.

Alembic usage:

- (Optional) Set path to `alembic.ini` file if Alembic commands are executed ouside the `tdp-lib` folder:

  ```sh
  export ALEMBIC_CONFIG=<path_to>/tdp-lib/alembic.ini
  ```

- Check if the database is up to date with SQLAlchemy models defined in `tdp/core/models`:

  ```sh
  alembic --name postgresql check
  alembic --name sqlite check
  alembic --name mysql check
  ```

- Generate a migration file in `alembic/versions`:

  ```sh
  alembic --name postgresql revision --autogenerate -m "alembic commit message"
  alembic --name sqlite revision --autogenerate -m "alembic commit message"
  alembic --name mysql revision --autogenerate -m "alembic commit message"
  ```

- Verify the file generated in the `versions` folder, modify it if necessary and test the upgrade with the command:

  ```sh
  alembic --name postgresql upgrade head
  alembic --name sqlite upgrade head
  alembic --name mysql upgrade head
  ```
```

- `mysql` for MySQL and MariaDB
- `postgresql` for PostgreSQL
- `sqlite` for SQLite

Mapping between the dialects and these environments is done in the `alembic.ini` file.

## Migration Modes

TDP only supports the `online` mode which allows to run the migration scripts directly on the database. It does not support the `offline` (aka `--sql`) mode which generates the SQL scripts to be run manually. Hence, the `run_migrations_offline` function in `env.py` is not implemented.

## Usage (development environment)

Database connections are required by Alembic to generate the revisions. As mentioned previously, revisions need to be generated for each dialect, hence, the corresponding database needs to be running.

### Database Setup (Optional)

For convenience, a compose file is provided to run all supported databases in Docker containers. To start the databases, run:

```sh
docker-compose -f dev/docker-compose.yaml up -d
```

To use the databases, set the following environment variables:

```sh
TDP_ALEMBIC_SQLITE_DSN=sqlite:///sqlite.db

> TDP_ALEMBIC_POSGRESQL_DSN=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/tdp

Reviewer: I did a typo here, sorry about that:

```suggestion
TDP_ALEMBIC_POSTGRESQL_DSN=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/tdp
```
